# Brass_Funnel

## Brass Funnel

### Renewable

No

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Tool

### Blast resistance

6

### Hardness

3

### Solid block

Yes

### Full block

No

### Transparent

Yes

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

No

The **Brass Funnel** is a block that can extract or insert items into inventories, much like the Andesite Funnel.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Crafting
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 Placement
    - 2.2 Filtering
- 3 History

## Obtaining[]

### Crafting[]

## Usage[]

### Placement[]

https://create.fandom.com/wiki/File:Funnel_Ponder.mp4 The Ponder scenes for the Funnel.

Funnels can be placed on inventories without the need to sneak, being placed in **output mode** by default. Sneaking while placing will place the funnel in input mode.

When attached to a Contraption, Brass Funnels can drop items from the contraption’s inventory. If a filter is set, only filtered items will be dropped.

### Filtering[]

Like other Brass machines, the Brass Funnel can be set to Filter items. It can also output a set amount of items, as well as only input items stacked to the set amount.

It can be set to insert or extract with a Wrench.

It can be turned off with Redstone.

## History[]

- 0.5: Recipe changed.
- 0.3.1: Funnels can be set to insert or extract with a Wrench.
- 0.3: “Funnel mechanics revised.” A Mechanical Belt is required to insert or extract items from inventories.
- 0.2: Funnels can be filtered, pick up item entities, sit on belts sideways, and be placed vertically.
- 0.1: Belt Funnel was added.