# Conveyor

## Mechanical Belt

### Renewable

Yes

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Tools

### Blast resistance

0.8

### Hardness

0.8

### Solid block

Yes

### Full block

No

### Transparent

Yes

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

No

## Rotational Power stats

### Kinetic Stress impact

0.0x RPM

### Speed requirement

None

A **Mechanical Belt** is a mechanical component that conveys rotation and moves items and entities.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Crafting
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 Placement
    - 2.2 Moving Entities and Items
    - 2.3 Relaying Rotational Power
    - 2.4 Interaction
- 3 Dyeing
- 4 History

## Obtaining[]

### Crafting[]

## Usage[]

### Placement[]

Placing a Belt requires at least two Shafts. Place the Belt by right-clicking on the first shaft and then right clicking the second. Regardless of the length, this only consumes one mechanical belt. Both shafts must face the same direction. A mechanical belt can be up to 20 blocks long. This is adjustable in the Config.

A Mechanical Belt can be placed over any number of Shafts arranged **horizontally, vertically,** or **diagonally** (45**°** towards the y axis) in a single line, provided that no obstructions are present and that the total length is no longer than twenty blocks. Andesite Casing and Brass Casing can be placed over any segment of a Belt.

Once a Belt is placed, it can be extended by right clicking the end with a **Mechanical Belt** in hand while the belt is under 20 blocks, though this does not consume the belt. Belts can also be shortened by right clicking them with a Wrench. Both actions relocate the Shaft.

### Moving Entities and Items[]

The Mechanical Belt can transport items from one location to another. Items can either be thrown onto the belt, and machines such as Funnels, Chutes or Mechanical Arms can place items onto the belt or remove items from the belt. A belt can also transport entities and the player. Diving Boots can be worn to negate this effect. Items cannot be moved by vertical belts. A belt’s throughput can be calculated as Throughput = 0.0390625 * RPM Item stacks per second. Note: Item stacks refers to stacks of items on the belt, not stacks of 64 items.

### Relaying Rotational Power[]

When rotational force is connected to any shaft of a belt, the belt conveys identical force to every other shaft it is connected to. As such, if two shafts are connected to external sources of rotational force, a belt cannot be placed connecting them unless the force is in the same direction and at the same speed.

### Interaction[]

Components that are commonly used in conjunction with the Mechanical Belt include:

- Mechanical Press
- Spout
- Brass Tunnel
- Funnel
- Chute
- Depot
- Mechanical Arm

A Mechanical Press presses items on the belt that pass underneath it. Spouts also fills valid items with the corresponding liquid that it has been supplied with. Brass Tunnels may be used to separate items from stacks or reorganize them as they move along the belt and through the Brass Tunnels. Chutes and Funnels can place items from machine inventories onto the belt or take items off the belt when facing the belt. A belt can place items onto a Depot which allows other machines such as a Chute or a Mechanical Arm to pick up the item and transfer them somewhere else.

## Dyeing[]

Mechanical Belts can be dyed be right clicking on them with a Dye. This will add colored stripes along the edges of the belt. To remove the dye, right click on the belt with a Water Bucket or Water Bottle.

## History[]

- 0.3.2: Belts can be shortened and extended with a Wrench or belt, respectively.
- 0.3.1: Dyes can be used to change the appearance of belts.
- 0.3: Belts can connect vertical shafts.
- 0.1: Introduced.