# Copper_Shingles

*This article is about the block. For the ore, see Copper Ore. For other forms of copper, see Copper.*

## Block of Copper

- Block
- Cut
- Shingles
- Tiles

### Renewable

Yes

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Tool

### Blast resistance

6

### Hardness

3

### Solid block

Yes

### Full block

Yes

### Transparent

No

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

No

The **Block of Copper** is a decorative storage block equivalent to nine Copper Ingots. The block will oxidize, slowly becoming a blue-green color.

**Cut Copper**, **Copper Shingles**, and **Copper Tiles** are purely decorative variants of the copper block and cannot be converted back into ingot form.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Breaking
    - 1.2 Crafting
    - 1.3 Block Cutting
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 Crafting Ingredient
    - 2.2 Crushing
- 3 History

## Obtaining[]

### Breaking[]

Blocks of copper can be mined only with a stone pickaxe or better. If a block of copper is mined without the use of a pickaxe, it drops nothing.

1. ↑ Times are for unenchanted tools as wielded by players with no status effects, measured in seconds. For more information, see Breaking § Speed.

### Crafting[]

### Block Cutting[]

## Usage[]

### Crafting Ingredient[]

### Crushing[]

## History[]

- 0.5:
    - Textures of all copper block variants were changed.
- 0.4:
    - Block of Copper removed.
    - An optional resource pack was added including the original copper block textures.
    - Oxidation now mimics vanilla with the addition of individual exposed, weathered, and oxidized versions.
    - Can now be waxed by Deployers.
- 0.3:
    - Added Copper Tiles.
    - Can now be used as a Beacon Block.
- 0.2:
    - Added Block of Copper and Copper Shingles.