# Copper

## Copper

**Copper** is a material used to create fluid components and Brass. For generation conditions, see Copper Ore.

## Contents

- 1 Items
- 2 Blocks
- 3 Usage
    - 3.1 Mixing
    - 3.2 Crafting
- 4 History

## Items[]

- Copper Ingot - An item created by smelting copper ore or crushed copper ore.
- Crushed Copper Ore - An item obtained by crushing copper ore or copper blocks. Can be smelted into copper ingots or washed into copper nuggets.
- Copper Nugget - An item that can be crafted into a copper ingot.
- Copper Sheet - An item created by pressing a copper ingot.

## Blocks[]

- Copper Ore - An ore found underground. Can be smelted into copper ingots or crushed into crushed copper ore.
- Copper Casing - A block created with wood and copper sheets. Can be used to craft fluid components.
- Block of Copper - A block used for compact copper storage and to create the base/pyramid for a Beacon.
- Copper Shingles - A decorative block crafted from copper sheets.
- Copper Tiles - A decorative block crafted from copper shingles.
- Copper Valve Handle - A slower, more precise version of the Hand Crank.
- Fluid Pipe - A block used to transfer fluids.
- Mechanical Pump - A block used to move fluids along pipes.
- Smart Fluid Pipe - A block used to filter fluids.
- Fluid Valve - A block used to control the flow of fluids.
- Fluid Tank - A block used to store fluids.
- Portable Fluid Interface - A block used to transfer fluids to and from moving contraptions.
- Spout - A block used to fill fluid container items and for certain recipes which require fluids.
- Hose Pulley - A block used to place or drain fluids.
- Item Drain - A block used to empty fluid container items.

## Usage[]

### Mixing[]

### Crafting[]

## History[]

- 0.4:
    - Removed Ingot and Block.
    - Copper Block oxidation mimics vanilla.
    - Copper Blocks can be waxed by Deployers.
- 0.3:
    - Added Tile variant.
    - Can be used as a Beacon Block.
- 0.2: Introduced.