# Cuckoo_Clock

## Cuckoo Clock

### Renewable

Yes

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Tools

### Blast resistance

2

### Hardness

2

### Solid block

Yes

### Full block

No

### Transparent

Yes

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

Yes

## Rotational Power stats

### Kinetic Stress impact

1.0x RPM

### Speed requirement

None

The Cuckoo Clock is a block that displays in-game time.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Crafting
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 Display Link
    - 2.2 Mysterious Cuckoo Clock
- 3 Advancements
- 4 History

## Obtaining[]

### Crafting[]

## Usage[]

The Cuckoo Clock is powered by connecting a Shaft, or other rotational component, to the back of the clock.

The Cuckoo Clock can run at any rotational speed, and produces stress equivalent to it’s speed.

Besides showing the in-game time, the Cuckoo Clock also chimes twice daily, once at noon, and once dusk (as soon as players can sleep). At noon a small pig pops in and out of the clock 3 times and makes an oinking sounds, at dusk a small creeper pops in and out of the clock 3 times and makes hissing sounds.

### Display Link[]

Display Links can read information from Cuckoo Clocks. There are two options:

- Time of Day (12 hour or 24 hour)
- Stopwatch - If the link is paused with Redstone, the time will reset upon being activated again.

### Mysterious Cuckoo Clock[]

The Mysterious Cuckoo Clock is an easter egg. Power it and wait until noon or dusk.

## Advancements[]

## History[]

- 0.5: Recipe changed.
- 0.3.2: No longer works in the Nether.
- 0.2: Added.