# Large_Cogwheel

## Cogwheel

- Small
- Large

### Renewable

Yes

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Tools

### Blast resistance

6

### Hardness

1.5

### Solid block

No

### Full block

No

### Transparent

Yes

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

No

## Rotational Power stats

### Requires Rotational Power

Yes

### Kinetic Stress impact

None

The **Cogwheel** is a basic mechanical component in Create that relays rotation.

The **Large Cogwheel** is a larger variant of the cogwheel that can relay rotation around corners and power Rotation Speed Controllers.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Crafting
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 Conveying Rotation
    - 2.2 Adjusting Speed
    - 2.3 Activating Components
    - 2.4 Crafting
- 3 History

## Obtaining[]

### Crafting[]

## Usage[]

### Conveying Rotation[]

https://create.fandom.com/wiki/File:Cogwheel_Ponder.mp4 The Ponder scenes for a Cogwheel.

Two adjacent cogwheels

Two perpendicular large cogwheels

Diagonally connected cogwheel and large cogwheel

Cogwheels have three main methods of interlocking:

- Two Cogwheels interlock when placed next to each other (not diagonally) and facing the same direction. When rotational force is provided to one of the cogwheels, the force will be provided to the other Cogwheel at the same speed but in the opposite direction.
- Two Large Cogwheels interlock when placed perpendicular to each other, effectively changing its axis and direction, but not its speed.
- A Cogwheel and a Large Cogwheel interlock when placed diagonally to each other and facing the same direction. The Large Cogwheel will rotate at half the speed of the Cogwheel.

A cogwheel can also be used like a Shaft, conveying rotation from the ends of its axis. They can be stopped from doing this by applying a Casing, configurable with a Wrench. Mechanical components can be connected to each end, and several Cogwheels connected end-to-end function the same as multiple shafts would.

### Adjusting Speed[]

https://create.fandom.com/wiki/File:Cogwheel_Ponder.mp4
Using pairs of Cogwheels and Large Cogwheels, rotational speed can be easily doubled or halved using the mechanic mentioned above. It is possible to connect many pairs of Large Cogwheels and Cogwheels to apply this mechanic repeatedly, up to 256 RPM.

A Large Cogwheel can also be connected to a Rotation Speed Controller, to adjust speed more precisely.

### Activating Components[]

Some blocks need to be powered by a Cogwheel to function. Those blocks contain a Cogwheel in their texture and can be powered by placing a Cogwheel adjacent to them or a large Cogwheel diagonally, both in the same direction as the block, like a normal Cogwheel.

**Components powered by cogwheels :**

- Display Board
- Mechanical Arm
- Mechanical Crafter
- Mechanical Mixer
- Millstone
- Mechanical Pump

### Crafting[]

Cogwheels are used to craft the following items:

- Gantry Carriage
- Gearbox
- Gearshift
- Mechanical Arm
- Mechanical Crafter
- Mechanical Mixer
- Mechanical Pump
- Millstone
- Precision Mechanism
- Sequenced Gearshift
- Toolbox
- Weighted Ejector
- Wrench

Large Cogwheels are used to craft the following items:

- Precision Mechanism
- Water Wheel

## History[]

- 0.4: Cogwheels can be encased.
- 0.3.2: Added Sequenced Assembly recipes for both variants.
- 0.3.1: Large Cogwheels can’t be placed directly adjacent to cog containing machines
- 0.2.2: Cogwheel containing machines can connect to Large Cogwheels.
- 0.1: Introduced.