# Mechanical_Arm

## Mechanical Arm

### Renewable

No

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Tools

### Blast resistance

6

### Hardness

3

### Solid block

Yes

### Full block

Partially (bottom only)

### Transparent

Yes

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

No

## Rotational Power stats

### Kinetic Stress impact

2x SU

### Speed requirement

None

The **Mechanical Arm** is a block used to transfer items.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Crafting
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 Interaction Points
    - 2.2 Behaviors
- 3 Trivia
- 4 History

## Obtaining[]

### Crafting[]

## Usage[]

With the Mechanical Arm in hand, right clicking valid inventories in a **5 block radius** will select them to be taken from, or deposited to if the inventory cannot be taken from. The arm will remember the order the blocks were chosen in. From there, further right clicking will toggle between taking from and depositing to. Left clicking will deselect the block. The Mechanical Arm can then be placed by right clicking on a block, and powered. The range of the arm can be adjusted in the Config.

The arm can be powered by a Cogwheel or similar blocks.

### Interaction Points[]

The Mechanical Arm can interact with the following blocks:

- Mechanical Belt
- Chute
- Depot
- Weighted Ejector
- Basin
- Andesite Funnel
- Brass Funnel
- Mechanical Crafter
- Millstone
- Deployer
- Mechanical Saw
- Blaze Burner
- Crushing Wheel
- Composter
- Train Station
- Jukebox

### Behaviors[]

The Mechanical Arm has three different behaviors which can be switched between with the Wrench:

- Round Robin - The Mechanical Arm will take from and deposit to available inventories in the order they were selected in.
- Forced Round Robin - The same function as Round Robin, but the Mechanical Arm will not move items until the next inventory in order of selection is available.
- Prefer First - The Mechanical Arm will always take from and deposit to the first available inventory in order of placement.

## Trivia[]

- When a Music Disc is played nearby while a Mechanical Arm is powered and not in use then the arm will dance like a Parrot.
- In its item.json file, the model is named “inserter”. This could be a reference to the game Factorio.
- The Mechanical Arm model is a reference to the game Sandship

## History[]

- 0.3.1:
    - Composters are now interaction points.
    - Arms will stall targeted Mechanical Belt Items.
- 0.3: Introduced.