# Millstone

## Millstone

### Renewable

Yes

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Tools

### Blast resistance

6

### Hardness

1.5

### Solid block

Yes

### Full block

No

### Transparent

Yes

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

No

## Rotational Power stats

### Requires Rotational Power

Yes

### Kinetic Stress impact

4x RPM

### Speed requirement

None

The Millstone is a more basic equivalent of the Crushing Wheels, and is most likely the first of the two that the Player will construct. It is capable of applying milling recipes to any valid items inserted from above.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Breaking
    - 1.2 Crafting
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 Milling
- 3 Advancements
- 4 History
- 5 Gallery

## Obtaining[]

### Breaking[]

1. ↑ Times are for unenchanted tools as wielded by players with no status effects, measured in seconds. For more information, see Breaking § Speed.

### Crafting[]

## Usage[]

A Millstone can be powered by a Shaft from below or by a Cogwheel from the side.

There are two ways to insert items into a Millstone:

- Dropping items on top of it: anything that can be processed will be picked up if the input buffer is empty.
- Hoppers, Funnels, Chutes, and other inserters can directly feed it items from any side.

Once a valid item has been placed into the mill through any of the means listed above, the Millstone will begin to turn, and particles will appear around the machine. Once finished, the Millstone will not drop or output the result by itself, but there are two ways to remove processed items:

- Right-clicking the Millstone with an empty hand: this will manually pick up everything in the output buffer.
- Hoppers, Funnels, Chutes, and other exporters can pull items out of the output buffer from any side.

The Millstone takes time to process its inputs. The exact time depends on the Block Hardness and the amount of speed being fed into the machine. It follows the formula: , where the Processing Speed is the time in seconds the Millstone will take to create an output.

### Milling[]

Millstones and Crushing Wheels can apply the following recipes to inserted items:

## Advancements[]

## History[]

- 0.5: Recipe changed.
- 0.2.2: Introduced.

## Gallery[]

The Millstone being powered simutaniously by a cog from the side and a shaft through the bottom.From Left to Right: A Chute, Hopper, Belt and Dropper all dropping items into a millstone, displaying the many ways you can insert an item into the machine.