# Potato_Cannon

## Potato Cannon

### Type

Weapon

### Durability

100

### Renewable

Yes

### Stackable

No

The **Potato Cannon** is a weapon that shoots food.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Mechanical Crafting
- 2 Usage
- 3 History

## Obtaining[]

### Mechanical Crafting[]

## Usage[]

When used with a Copper Backtank, it does not use any durability to fire, and instead, 4.5 seconds of air is used. This means that you can fire the Potato Cannon 200 times from a full Copper Backtank before it starts using durability.

Some ammo shoots farther than others. If you put a potato cannon in both the off and mainhand, the cooldown is multiplied by , resulting in a fire rate 50% faster than usual. This can be problematic for Beetroots, Melon Slices, and Glistening Melons, which will fire at a rate faster than 5 Reload Time, meaning that the enemy will still be on the 5 Tick damage cooldown when the next projectile is launched, therefore passing through the enemy.

A Potato Cannon can be enchanted with Unbreaking, Curse of Vanishing, Mending, Flame, and Potato Recovery.

When enchanted with Potato Recovery, ammo has a chance to drop as an item on hit. The chance of ammo being dropped is 25% for Potato Recovery 1, 33% for Potato Recovery 2, and 50% for Potato Recovery 3.

When enchanted with Power, a projectile will deal +20% damage per level.

When enchanted with Flame, the target will take 1 damage every 10 ticks for 40 ticks (2 seconds). This overrides the fire damage value of the Baked Potato, bringing up to 40 ticks of fire. Flame does not deal extra damage with Poisonous Potatoes, unless the attacked entity is immune to poison.

A Potato Cannon cannot mine any blocks, even in Creative mode.

## History[]