# Seat

## Seat

- White
- Orange
- Magenta
- Light Blue
- Yellow
- Lime
- Pink
- Gray
- Light Gray
- Cyan
- Purple
- Blue
- Brown
- Green
- Red
- Black

### Renewable

Yes

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Tool

### Blast resistance

2

### Hardness

2

### Solid block

No

### Full block

No

### Transparent

Yes

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

Yes

Seats are used to allow multiple entities to ride a Contraption.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 Trains
- 3 History

## Obtaining[]

## Usage[]

Seats come in every color of Dye. They function much like a Boat in that they can be ridden by players and mobs. They retain this function while on a Contraption.

Leads can be used to seat mobs more easily. This also applies to seats on assembled Contraptions. Mobs can be removed from their seats by a Deployer or by right clicking the Seat (this will cause the player to sit in the mob’s place.) They can also be removed by other Contraptions passing through the Seat. Players can leave the seat by sneaking.

Placed Seats can be dyed with Dye.

### Trains[]

Main articles: Train and Train Schedule If a player sits in a Seat on a Train and enters third person mode by pressing `F5`, their view will be zoomed out further than normal. The amount can be adjusted in the Config.

If a non-Blaze Burner conductor is desired, a Seat must be placed directly behind the Train Controls.

A Train Schedule can be used to count the amount of players seated on a Train before leaving the Train Station. This can also be displayed with a Display Link.

Sitting in a Seat on a Train will also allow the player to stay on the Train as it passes through Nether Portals.

## History[]

- 0.5: Leads can now be used to seat mobs easily.
- 0.3: Introduced.