# Shaft

## Shaft

### Renewable

Yes

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Tools

### Blast resistance

6

### Hardness

1.5

### Solid block

Yes

### Full block

No

### Transparent

Yes

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

No

The **shaft** is a basic mechanical component in Create. A shaft can be used to connect two mechanical components such that the rotation of one rotates the other, and shafts serve as the only blocks upon which Mechanical Belts can be placed.

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Crafting
    - 1.2 Sawing
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 Connecting components
    - 2.2 Mechanical belts
- 3 History

## Obtaining[]

### Crafting[]

### Sawing[]

## Usage[]

### Connecting components[]

When two mechanical components are connected by a shaft, any rotational force provided to either component will also be provided to the other component at the same speed. As such, if both components provide stress, this can cause the machine to become overstressed.

### Mechanical belts[]

A Mechanical Belt must be placed between two shafts. The shafts must be horizontal, parallel to each other, and perpendicular to the belt itself, and they must be aligned horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. **Please note that you cannot have any other diagonal angles other than 45°.** Additionally, no obstruction can exist between the two endpoints with the exception of other shafts.

A Brass Casing can be placed over any segment of a mechanical belt, and this includes segments that contain shafts.

A Content Observer will not detect entities on any belt segment that contains a shaft.

Many Recipes also use Shafts to craft Various Components, here’s a list of items that use them as of V0.3

- Clockwork Bearing
- Mechanical Bearing
- Hand Crank
- Windmill Bearing
- Speedometer
- Fluid Valve
- Encased Chain Drive
- Hose Pulley
- Rope Pulley
- Turntable
- Rotation Speed Controller
- Clutch
- Encased Fan

## History[]

0.1: Added