# Toolbox

## Toolbox

- Brown
- White
- Orange
- Magenta
- Light Blue
- Yellow
- Lime
- Pink
- Gray
- Light Gray
- Cyan
- Purple
- Blue
- Green
- Red
- Black

### Renewable

Yes

### Stackable

Yes

### Tool

Any tool

### Blast resistance

2

### Hardness

2

### Solid block

No

### Full block

No

### Transparent

Yes

### Luminant

No

### Flammable

No

### Catches fire from lava

No

## Contents

- 1 Obtaining
    - 1.1 Crafting
- 2 Usage
    - 2.1 In-game Tooltip
- 3 History

## Obtaining[]

### Crafting[]

## Usage[]

Accessing Toolbox with keybind

The Toolbox can hold up to 256 items per slot and has 8 slots. The inventory is retained when picked up. Players can press the toolbox keybind (`Alt` by default) to access the toolbox inventory from up to 10 blocks away. Retrieving an item in this manner causes a gold border with a red indicator on the top and bottom to appear. This red indicator becomes dark red when the toolbox is out of range.

While the player is in range of the toolbox, items will also be refilled. The toolbox range can be changed in the Config.

If multiple toolboxes are in range, the player can choose which toolbox to access. Players can choose to stack all matching items into the toolbox by clicking the “Return items” button in the interface.

### In-game Tooltip[]

Every Inventor’s dearest Companion. Conveniently **holds** a large amount of **8 Different** item types.

When picked up

**Retains** inventory **Contents**.

When Placed in Range

**Nearby Players** can hold the **Toolbox Keybind** to access its contents **Remotely**.

When R-clicked

Opens the **Container Interface**.

## History[]

0.3.2e: Added